title: [GSoC] Accepted Projects
layout: blogpost
publishDate: "2025-06-04"

The Pharo Google Summer of Code 2025 has officially started! We're excited to announce that 8 projects have been accepted this year, each contributing to the growth and innovation of the Pharo ecosystem.

Here are the projects:

- Implementation of Standard Data Structures and Algorithms
	- Contributor: Alok Pathak | Mentors: Sebastian Jordan, Gordana Rakic
	- Developing robust, well-designed core data structures and algorithms to strengthen Pharo’s collections library.

- DrTest Reloaded: Enhanced User Experience and Plugin Power
	- Contributor: Estefania Pakarati Cofré | Mentors: Sebastian Jordan, Juan Pablo
	- Revamping the DrTest testing framework for better usability, extensibility, and performance.

- Support for Serious Games in Cormas
	- Contributor: Jovan Kupusović | Mentor: Oleksandr Zaitsev
    - Enhancing the Cormas platform to support multiplayer and interactive serious games simulations.

- Computer Vision for Game Piece Detection
    - Contributor: Kyla Kaplan | Mentors: Oleksandr Zaitsev, Clp
    - Integrating computer vision into Cormas to detect real-world game pieces and enable physical-digital interaction.

- Optimizing the Pharo Compiler with Bytecode-Level Inlining
    - Contributor: Lucio_08 | Mentors: PalumboN, Guille Polito, Pablo Tesone
    - Improving the DRUID optimizing compiler with bytecode-level inlining for better runtime performance.

- PAM: A Text-to-Speech (TTS) Tool for Pharo
    - Contributor: Neerja Doshi | Mentors: PalumboN, Domenico Cipriani
    - Creating the first native TTS system for Pharo, converting text into phonemes with basic speech dynamics.

- Eliminate Object Pointers in JIT-Compiled Code for Better GC Performance
    - Contributor: Shengyu | Mentors: PalumboN, Guille Polito, Pablo Tesone
    - Redesigning Pharo’s JIT code generation to reduce garbage collection overhead by removing embedded object pointers.

- A Seamless Interface Between LLMs and Pharo
    - Contributor: SrajalDwivedi17 | Mentors: Balša Šarenac, Omar Abedelkader
    - Building ChatPharo, a smart assistant integrating Large Language Models directly into the Pharo environment.
	
	
For more infos, see the [Pharo GSoC 2025 page]](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2025/organizations/pharo-consortium).

We look forward to a summer full of innovation, collaboration, and great contributions from our amazing students and mentors!
